docs/concepts/authorization.md, before:

# Authorization

Perses uses a Role-based access control (RBAC) system to regulate access to resources based on user roles.

The RBAC API includes four kinds of resources: `GlobalRole`, `Role`, `GlobalRoleBinding`, and `RoleBinding`.

The RBAC implementation in Perses is heavily inspired by Kubernetes' RBAC model.

## Role and GlobalRole

An RBAC `Role` or `GlobalRole` defines a set of permissions (rules). Permissions are purely additive, meaning there are
no "deny" permissions.

- A `Role` specifies permissions within a specific project. The project must be defined when the `Role` is created.
- A `GlobalRole` applies to resources globally and is not limited to a project scope.

### Role Example

This example defines a `Role` in the "MySuperProject" project that grants edit access to dashboards:

```yaml
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: dashboard-editor
  project: MySuperProject
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "Dashboard" ]
```

### Global Role example

A `GlobalRole` can grant access to both global resources (e.g., global datasources, global variables, users) and
project-specific resources (like dashboards) across all projects.

Here is an example of a GlobalRole that grants edit access to variables across all projects:

```yaml
kind: GlobalRole
metadata:
  name: variable-editor
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "Variable" ]
```

## RoleBinding and GlobalRoleBinding

A role binding grants the permissions defined in a role to a user or set of users.
It holds a list of subjects (users or teams) and a reference to the role being granted. A `RoleBinding` grants
permissions within a specific project whereas a `GlobalRoleBinding` grants that access global-wide.

A `RoleBinding` may reference any `Role` in the same project. Similarly, a `GlobalRoleBinding` can reference any
`GlobalRole`.

### RoleBinding example

Here is an example of a `RoleBinding` that grants the "dashboard-editor" `Role` to the user "jane" within the
"MySuperProject" project. This allows "jane" to edit dashboards in the "MySuperProject" project.

```yaml
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: edit-dashboards
  project: MySuperProject
spec:
  role: dashboard-editor
  subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: jane
```

### GlobalRoleBinding example

Here is an example of a `GlobalRoleBinding` that grants the "variable-editor" `GlobalRole` to the user "jane" within all
projects. This allows "jane" to edit variables in all projects.

```yaml
kind: GlobalRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: edit-variables
spec:
  role: variable-editor
  subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: jane
```

### RoleBinding and GlobalRoleBinding update restriction

Once you have created a `RoleBinding` or `GlobalRoleBinding`, you cannot update it to change the role it refers to.
If you try to change a binding's role, you get a validation error.
If you do want to change the role in the binding's spec, then you will need to remove the binding object and create a
new one.

This restriction is in place for the following reasons:

- If you are unable to update the role in a binding's spec, then you will not grant by accident a user more permissions
  than they should have.
- We consider that a binding to a different role is fundamentally differen

## Referring to resources

In Perses API, resources are identified and accessed using a string, corresponding to the name in the metadata. You can
also refer to all resources using the wildcard `*` character.
Here is an example for granting edit permissions to all resources in all projects:

```yaml
kind: GlobalRole
metadata:
  name: admin-editor
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "*" ]
```

## RBAC Synchro

Roles and RoleBindings of a user are stored in the user's JWT.
If Perses is deployed with multiple instances, Perses RBAC roles and role bindings cache need to be
synchronized/replicated between all instances.
To do that, there are multiple mechanisms:

- cache is refreshed every X minutes
- cache is refreshed if roles and rolebindings retrieved from the user's JWT are different from the cache
- cache is refreshed when a new role is created, edited or deleted
- cache is refreshed when a new rolebinding is created, edited or deleted

## Kubernetes

When enabled in config, Perses can use Kubernetes RBAC for Namespaces, PersesDashboards (operator CRD), and PersesDatasources (operator CRD). More information can be found in the [config docs](../configuration/configuration.md).All other permissions for a user are pulled from the `authorization.guest_permissions` permission set.

Commit message:

[IGNORE] remove ability to save user data with k8s auth
Remove the need for hashing the file names and ignoring the validation
on the user by instead just not saving information onto the perses
backend. The jwt token is still set with the username for the perses
frontend to use. All user, role, and rolebinding endpoints are disabled
when k8s auth is enabled except for /users/{username}/permissions

Signed-off-by: PeterYurkovich <pyurkovi@redhat.com>

docs/concepts/authorization.md, after:

# Authorization

Perses uses a Role-based access control (RBAC) system to regulate access to resources based on user roles.

The RBAC API includes four kinds of resources: `GlobalRole`, `Role`, `GlobalRoleBinding`, and `RoleBinding`.

The RBAC implementation in Perses is heavily inspired by Kubernetes' RBAC model.

## Role and GlobalRole

An RBAC `Role` or `GlobalRole` defines a set of permissions (rules). Permissions are purely additive, meaning there are
no "deny" permissions.

- A `Role` specifies permissions within a specific project. The project must be defined when the `Role` is created.
- A `GlobalRole` applies to resources globally and is not limited to a project scope.

### Role Example

This example defines a `Role` in the "MySuperProject" project that grants edit access to dashboards:

```yaml
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: dashboard-editor
  project: MySuperProject
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "Dashboard" ]
```

### Global Role example

A `GlobalRole` can grant access to both global resources (e.g., global datasources, global variables, users) and
project-specific resources (like dashboards) across all projects.

Here is an example of a GlobalRole that grants edit access to variables across all projects:

```yaml
kind: GlobalRole
metadata:
  name: variable-editor
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "Variable" ]
```

## RoleBinding and GlobalRoleBinding

A role binding grants the permissions defined in a role to a user or set of users.
It holds a list of subjects (users or teams) and a reference to the role being granted. A `RoleBinding` grants
permissions within a specific project whereas a `GlobalRoleBinding` grants that access global-wide.

A `RoleBinding` may reference any `Role` in the same project. Similarly, a `GlobalRoleBinding` can reference any
`GlobalRole`.

### RoleBinding example

Here is an example of a `RoleBinding` that grants the "dashboard-editor" `Role` to the user "jane" within the
"MySuperProject" project. This allows "jane" to edit dashboards in the "MySuperProject" project.

```yaml
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: edit-dashboards
  project: MySuperProject
spec:
  role: dashboard-editor
  subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: jane
```

### GlobalRoleBinding example

Here is an example of a `GlobalRoleBinding` that grants the "variable-editor" `GlobalRole` to the user "jane" within all
projects. This allows "jane" to edit variables in all projects.

```yaml
kind: GlobalRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: edit-variables
spec:
  role: variable-editor
  subjects:
    - kind: User
      name: jane
```

### RoleBinding and GlobalRoleBinding update restriction

Once you have created a `RoleBinding` or `GlobalRoleBinding`, you cannot update it to change the role it refers to.
If you try to change a binding's role, you get a validation error.
If you do want to change the role in the binding's spec, then you will need to remove the binding object and create a
new one.

This restriction is in place for the following reasons:

- If you are unable to update the role in a binding's spec, then you will not grant by accident a user more permissions
  than they should have.
- We consider that a binding to a different role is fundamentally differen

## Referring to resources

In Perses API, resources are identified and accessed using a string, corresponding to the name in the metadata. You can
also refer to all resources using the wildcard `*` character.
Here is an example for granting edit permissions to all resources in all projects:

```yaml
kind: GlobalRole
metadata:
  name: admin-editor
spec:
  permissions:
    - actions: [ "edit" ]
      scopes: [ "*" ]
```

## RBAC Synchro

Roles and RoleBindings of a user are stored in the user's JWT.
If Perses is deployed with multiple instances, Perses RBAC roles and role bindings cache need to be
synchronized/replicated between all instances.
To do that, there are multiple mechanisms:

- cache is refreshed every X minutes
- cache is refreshed if roles and rolebindings retrieved from the user's JWT are different from the cache
- cache is refreshed when a new role is created, edited or deleted
- cache is refreshed when a new rolebinding is created, edited or deleted

## Kubernetes

When enabled in config, Perses can use Kubernetes RBAC for Namespaces, PersesDashboards (operator CRD), and PersesDatasources (operator CRD). More information can be found in the [config docs](../configuration/configuration.md).All other permissions for a user are pulled from the `authorization.guest_permissions` permission set. 

!!! warning
  When Kubernetes Authentication and Authorization is enabled, information on the user, roles and rolebindings are not saved to perses and the corresponding API endpoints are not enabled.
