GOVERNANCE.md, before:

# Project Governance

This document provides an initial governance structure for the Perses project.
We've deliberately kept this as simple as possible for now, but 
we expect the governance to evolve as the project grows.

## Maintainers

Perses maintainers have write access to projects under the Perses GitHub organization.
They can merge their own patches or patches from others. The current maintainers
can be found in [MAINTAINERS.md](./MAINTAINERS.md).  Maintainers collectively
manage the project's resources and contributors.

This privilege is granted with some expectation of responsibility: maintainers
are people who care about the Perses project and want to help it grow and
improve. A maintainer is not just someone who can make changes, but someone who
has demonstrated their ability to collaborate with the team, get the most
knowledgeable people to review code and docs, contribute high-quality code, and
follow through to fix issues (in code or tests).

A maintainer is a contributor to the project's success and a citizen helping
the project succeed.

## Becoming a Maintainer

To become a Maintainer you need to demonstrate the following:

  * commitment to the project:
    * participate in discussions, contributions, code and documentation reviews
    * perform reviews for several non-trivial pull requests,
    * contribute to several non-trivial pull requests and have them merged,
  * ability to write quality code and/or documentation,
  * ability to collaborate with the team,
  * understanding of how the team works (policies, processes for testing and code review, etc),
  * understanding of the project's code base and coding and documentation style.

A new Maintainer must be proposed by an existing maintainer by creating a new issue in 
the [Perses repository](https://github.com/perses/perses/issues). The new maintainer
will be approved after another maintainer (in addition to the one proposing) has endorsed
the person.

## Voting

While most business in Perses is conducted by "lazy consensus", periodically
the Maintainers may need to vote on specific actions or changes.
A vote can be taken by creating a new issue in the
[Perses repository](https://github.com/perses/perses/issues).
Any Maintainer may demand a vote be taken.

Most votes require a simple majority of all Maintainers to succeed. Maintainers
can be removed by a 2/3 majority vote of all Maintainers, and changes to this
Governance require a 2/3 vote of all Maintainers.

Commit message:

updated to require a majority of maintainers to approve new maintainers on a private mailing list, instead of as an issue. Also updated the voting section to include the option of calling for a vote on the private maintainer mailing list for sensitive votes or using issues for other votes.
Signed-off-by: Dawn M. Foster <fosterd@vmware.com>

GOVERNANCE.md, after:

# Project Governance

This document provides an initial governance structure for the Perses project.
We've deliberately kept this as simple as possible for now, but 
we expect the governance to evolve as the project grows.

## Maintainers

Perses maintainers have write access to projects under the Perses GitHub organization.
They can merge their own patches or patches from others. The current maintainers
can be found in [MAINTAINERS.md](./MAINTAINERS.md).  Maintainers collectively
manage the project's resources and contributors.

This privilege is granted with some expectation of responsibility: maintainers
are people who care about the Perses project and want to help it grow and
improve. A maintainer is not just someone who can make changes, but someone who
has demonstrated their ability to collaborate with the team, get the most
knowledgeable people to review code and docs, contribute high-quality code, and
follow through to fix issues (in code or tests).

A maintainer is a contributor to the project's success and a citizen helping
the project succeed.

## Becoming a Maintainer

To become a Maintainer you need to demonstrate the following:

  * commitment to the project:
    * participate in discussions, contributions, code and documentation reviews
    * perform reviews for several non-trivial pull requests,
    * contribute to several non-trivial pull requests and have them merged,
  * ability to write quality code and/or documentation,
  * ability to collaborate with the team,
  * understanding of how the team works (policies, processes for testing and code review, etc),
  * understanding of the project's code base and coding and documentation style.

A new maintainer must be proposed by an existing maintainer by sending an email to the
private maintainer mailing list (TODO CREATE ML). A majority of existing maintainers
must vote to approve a new maintainer. After the new maintainer is approved, they will 
be added to the private maintainer mailing list.

## Voting

While most business in Perses is conducted by "lazy consensus", periodically
the Maintainers may need to vote on specific actions or changes.
A vote can be taken by emailing the private maintainer mailing list for sensitive
matters or by creating an issue to allow for public comment from the broader
community. Any Maintainer may demand a vote be taken.

Most votes require a simple majority of all Maintainers to succeed. Maintainers
can be removed by a 2/3 majority vote of all Maintainers, and changes to this
Governance require a 2/3 vote of all Maintainers.
