README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<h1 style="border-bottom: none">
    <a href="https://github.com/perses" target="_blank"><img alt="Perses" src="/docs/images/perses_logo_cropped.svg"></a><br>Perses
</h1>

[![build](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3Aci)
[![go](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/go/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3Ago)
[![react](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/react/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3AReact)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/perses/perses)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/perses/perses)
[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/perses/perses)

</div>

## Overview

Perses is part of the [CoreDash community](https://github.com/coredashio/community). It belongs to the Linux Foundation.
At a later stage, we want to promote the project to the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) and be
part of the monitoring tools like Prometheus or Thanos.

| ![img.png](https://github.com/perses/perses/assets/5657041/3bd8ae57-da7b-4447-9478-cefe19d61a71) | ![img.png](https://github.com/perses/perses/assets/5657041/ba46beab-c8fb-4583-bc2f-71c9893f7906) |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

Perses aims to tackle multiple goals:

1. Become a **standard** dashboard visualization tool for Prometheus and other datasources. It will focus on being
   GitOps-compatible and thus enabling a smooth Dashboard-as-Code workflow, via a new and well-defined dashboard
   definition model.
2. Provide different npm packages, so that anyone that would like to embed charts and dashboards in their own UI could
   benefit from the work achieved here. For example, these packages might be used in the future to improve the display
   of the data in the Prometheus UI.
3. Offer a Kubernetes-native mode in which dashboard definitions can be deployed into and read from individual
   application namespaces (using CRDs). For more information you can take a look at
   [the doc](./docs/design-docs/kubernetes.md) which would give you an idea of how it would work.
4. To be friendly to Dashboard-as-Code users, by providing a complete static validation of the dashboard format. That
   means you will be able to validate your dashboards in a CI/CD using the Perses CLI (named `percli`)
5. Support plugins, to allow users to extend the capacities natively provided.

## Status

1. Perses as an application can now **be used**.
   * Data-model reached a stable point, and we are providing different panels that should cover most of the use case
     when you need to use Prometheus.
   * Authentication and authorization are available.
2. On the GitOps aspect:
   * We provide a CLI that helps to interact with the API. A short doc is available [here](./docs/tooling/cli.md)
   * Two SDKs (in Golang and in Cuelang) are available to create a Dashboard using language you would
     like. (`Dashboard as Code` feature)
     Probably these SDKs are going to involve depending on the feedback we might receive. Likely it will be to add more
     util function rather than breaking things.
3. We are eager to change the current plugin architecture to make it potentially simpler and above all to be able to
   externalize the load and the implementation of a plugin.
   * Changes are more on the frontend side. [cue/schemas](./cue/schemas) are kept in their current shape as there is no
     point to remove the static validation of the plugin in the backend side.
   * *Work is in progress*

## What's next

Current Roadmap is available [here](./ROADMAP.md)

## Install

There are various ways of installing Perses.

### Precompiled binaries

Precompiled binaries for released versions are available in
the [GitHub release](https://github.com/perses/perses/releases). Using the latest release binary is the recommended way
of installing Perses.

### Docker images

Docker images are available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/persesdev/perses).

You can launch a Perses container for trying it out with:

```bash
docker run --name perses -d -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080 persesdev/perses
```

### Building from source

To build Perses from source code, You need:

- Go [version 1.18 or greater](https://golang.org/doc/install).
- NodeJS [version 18 or greater](https://nodejs.org/).
- npm [version 8 or greater](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Start by cloning the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/perses/perses.git
cd perses
```

Then you can use `make build` that would build the web assets and then Perses itself (and also the Perses CLI that can
be used to interact directly with the Perses API in case you prefer to browser the API using a terminal).

```bash
make build
./bin/perses --config=your_config.yml
```

## Contributing and development

General instructions about how you can contribute to Perses are available in the
document [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### UI development

If you are primarily interested in contributing to the UI application and libraries, please refer to
the [UI Readme](./ui/README.md). It includes quick start instructions for how to build, run, and test the React UI. It
also includes details about the architecture and [guidelines](./ui/ui-guidelines.md) for development.

## License

The code is licensed under an [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) license.

Commit message:

add demo links in the readme (#1976)
Signed-off-by: Augustin Husson <husson.augustin@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<h1 style="border-bottom: none">
    <a href="https://github.com/perses" target="_blank"><img alt="Perses" src="/docs/images/perses_logo_cropped.svg"></a><br>Perses
</h1>

[![build](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/ci/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3Aci)
[![go](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/go/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3Ago)
[![react](https://github.com/perses/perses/workflows/react/badge.svg)](https://github.com/perses/perses/actions?query=workflow%3AReact)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/perses/perses)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/perses/perses)
[![Gitpod ready-to-code](https://img.shields.io/badge/Gitpod-ready--to--code-blue?logo=gitpod)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/perses/perses)

</div>

## Overview

Perses is part of the [CoreDash community](https://github.com/coredashio/community). It belongs to the Linux Foundation.
At a later stage, we want to promote the project to the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation](https://www.cncf.io/) and be
part of the monitoring tools like Prometheus or Thanos.

| ![img.png](https://github.com/perses/perses/assets/5657041/3bd8ae57-da7b-4447-9478-cefe19d61a71) | ![img.png](https://github.com/perses/perses/assets/5657041/ba46beab-c8fb-4583-bc2f-71c9893f7906) |
|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|

Perses aims to tackle multiple goals:

1. Become a **standard** dashboard visualization tool for Prometheus and other datasources. It will focus on being
   GitOps-compatible and thus enabling a smooth Dashboard-as-Code workflow, via a new and well-defined dashboard
   definition model.
2. Provide different npm packages, so that anyone that would like to embed charts and dashboards in their own UI could
   benefit from the work achieved here. For example, these packages might be used in the future to improve the display
   of the data in the Prometheus UI.
3. Offer a Kubernetes-native mode in which dashboard definitions can be deployed into and read from individual
   application namespaces (using CRDs). For more information you can take a look at
   [the doc](./docs/design-docs/kubernetes.md) which would give you an idea of how it would work.
4. To be friendly to Dashboard-as-Code users, by providing a complete static validation of the dashboard format. That
   means you will be able to validate your dashboards in a CI/CD using the Perses CLI (named `percli`)
5. Support plugins, to allow users to extend the capacities natively provided.

## Try it

We are providing an online demo available on **https://demo.perses.dev**.
You can create your own project and dashboards there, nobody will be able to modify them!

## Status

1. Perses as an application can now **be used**.
   * Data-model reached a stable point, and we are providing different panels that should cover most of the use case
     when you need to use Prometheus.
   * Authentication and authorization are available.
2. On the GitOps aspect:
   * We provide a CLI that helps to interact with the API. A short doc is available [here](./docs/tooling/cli.md)
   * Two SDKs (in Golang and in Cuelang) are available to create a Dashboard using language you would
     like. (`Dashboard as Code` feature)
     Probably these SDKs are going to involve depending on the feedback we might receive. Likely it will be to add more
     util function rather than breaking things.
3. We are eager to change the current plugin architecture to make it potentially simpler and above all to be able to
   externalize the load and the implementation of a plugin.
   * Changes are more on the frontend side. [cue/schemas](./cue/schemas) are kept in their current shape as there is no
     point to remove the static validation of the plugin in the backend side.
   * *Work is in progress*

## What's next

Current Roadmap is available [here](./ROADMAP.md)

## Install

There are various ways of installing Perses.

### Precompiled binaries

Precompiled binaries for released versions are available in
the [GitHub release](https://github.com/perses/perses/releases). Using the latest release binary is the recommended way
of installing Perses.

### Docker images

Docker images are available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/persesdev/perses).

You can launch a Perses container for trying it out with:

```bash
docker run --name perses -d -p 127.0.0.1:8080:8080 persesdev/perses
```

### Building from source

To build Perses from source code, You need:

- Go [version 1.18 or greater](https://golang.org/doc/install).
- NodeJS [version 18 or greater](https://nodejs.org/).
- npm [version 8 or greater](https://www.npmjs.com/).

Start by cloning the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/perses/perses.git
cd perses
```

Then you can use `make build` that would build the web assets and then Perses itself (and also the Perses CLI that can
be used to interact directly with the Perses API in case you prefer to browser the API using a terminal).

```bash
make build
./bin/perses --config=your_config.yml
```

## Contributing and development

General instructions about how you can contribute to Perses are available in the
document [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### UI development

If you are primarily interested in contributing to the UI application and libraries, please refer to
the [UI Readme](./ui/README.md). It includes quick start instructions for how to build, run, and test the React UI. It
also includes details about the architecture and [guidelines](./ui/ui-guidelines.md) for development.

## License

The code is licensed under an [Apache 2.0](./LICENSE) license.
