docs/dac/cue/dashboard.md, before:

# Dashboard builder

The Dashboard builder helps creating dashboards in the format expected by Perses.

## Usage

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
)

dashboardBuilder & {} // input parameters expected
```

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type                                                                                                                                                     | Description                                                                                                         |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `#name`        | string                                                                                                                                                   | The name of the dashboard.                                                                                          |
| `#project`     | string                                                                                                                                                   | The project to which the dashboard belongs.                                                                         |
| `#variables`   | [...[VariableSpec](../../api/variable.md#dashboard-level)]                                                                                               | An array of variables defined for the dashboard.                                                                    |
| `#panelGroups` | map[string]: { layout: [Layout](../../api/dashboard.md#layout-specification), panels: map[string]: [Panel](../../api/dashboard.md#panel-specification) } | A map where each key is a panel group name, and the value is an object containing layout and panels for that group. |

## Example

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/panel"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	textVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/text"
	labelValuesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelvalues"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/perses/cue/schemas/panels/time-series:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/perses/cue/schemas/queries/prometheus:model"
)

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:    "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project: "MyProject"
	#variables: {varGroupBuilder & {
		#input: [
			textVarBuilder & {
				#name:     "prometheus"
				#value:    "platform"
				#constant: true
			},
			labelValuesVarBuilder & {
				#name: "stack"
				#display: name: "PaaS"
				#metric:         "thanos_build_info"
				#label:          "stack"
				#datasourceName: "promDemo"
			}
		]
	}}.variables
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					panelBuilder & {
						spec: {
							display: name: "Container CPU"
							plugin: timeseriesChart
							queries: [
								{
									kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
									spec: plugin: promQuery & {
										spec: query: "sum by (container) (container_cpu_usage_seconds)"
									}
								},
							]
						}
					}
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```

As you can see, other builders are used in conjunction with the dashboard builder to facilitate further the coding.
Please refer to their respective documentation for more information about each.

Commit message:

[ENHANCEMENT] DaC CUE SDK: add display attributes support to dashboard builder (#1942)
Signed-off-by: Antoine THEBAUD <antoine.thebaud@yahoo.fr>

docs/dac/cue/dashboard.md, after:

# Dashboard builder

The Dashboard builder helps creating dashboards in the format expected by Perses.

## Usage

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
)

dashboardBuilder & {} // input parameters expected
```

## Parameters

| Parameter      | Type                                                                                                                                                     | Description                                                                                                         |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `#name`        | string                                                                                                                                                   | The name of the dashboard.                                                                                          |
| `#display`     | [Display](../../api/dashboard.md#display-specification)                                                                                                  | Display object to tune the display name and description.                                                            |
| `#project`     | string                                                                                                                                                   | The project to which the dashboard belongs.                                                                         |
| `#variables`   | [...[VariableSpec](../../api/variable.md#dashboard-level)]                                                                                               | An array of variables defined for the dashboard.                                                                    |
| `#panelGroups` | map[string]: { layout: [Layout](../../api/dashboard.md#layout-specification), panels: map[string]: [Panel](../../api/dashboard.md#panel-specification) } | A map where each key is a panel group name, and the value is an object containing layout and panels for that group. |

## Example

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/panel"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	textVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/text"
	labelValuesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelvalues"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/perses/cue/schemas/panels/time-series:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/perses/cue/schemas/queries/prometheus:model"
)

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:    "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project: "MyProject"
	#variables: {varGroupBuilder & {
		#input: [
			textVarBuilder & {
				#name:     "prometheus"
				#value:    "platform"
				#constant: true
			},
			labelValuesVarBuilder & {
				#name: "stack"
				#display: name: "PaaS"
				#metric:         "thanos_build_info"
				#label:          "stack"
				#datasourceName: "promDemo"
			}
		]
	}}.variables
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					panelBuilder & {
						spec: {
							display: name: "Container CPU"
							plugin: timeseriesChart
							queries: [
								{
									kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
									spec: plugin: promQuery & {
										spec: query: "sum by (container) (container_cpu_usage_seconds)"
									}
								},
							]
						}
					}
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```

As you can see, other builders are used in conjunction with the dashboard builder to facilitate further the coding.
Please refer to their respective documentation for more information about each.
