docs/dac/cue/README.md, before:

# CUE SDK for Dashboard-as-Code

!!! note
	To get started with Dashboard-as-Code in Perses, have a look at the [DaC user guide](../getting-started.md) first.

This section provides detailed information about the CUE SDK to develop dashboards as code in Perses.
It's focusing on explaining how to use the different builders provided by the SDK, that you should rely on to simplify the coding.
Besides, you can always directly manipulate the base datamodel of the Perses dashboard, but this is less convenient.

See the dedicated pages for each builder:

- [Dashboard](./dashboard.md)
- [Panel Groups](./panelgroups.md)
- Variable-related builders:
    - [Variable Group](./variable/group.md)
    - [List Variable](./variable/list.md)
    - [Text Variable](./variable/text.md)

See also some useful patterns for DaC with the CUE SDK in the below section.

## Useful patterns

This section provides additional tips and tricks to help you develop dashboards as code:

### Declare intermediary objects for reusability

For code organization & to allow reuse/imports of definitions, it's often interesting to declare things like panels, variables etc. upfront and to pass them afterwards to the dashboard object.

Example:

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/panel"
	promQLVarBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/variable/promql"
	promFilterBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/filter"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/plugins/timeserieschart/schemas:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/schemas/prometheus-time-series-query:model"
)

#myVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "namespace"
			#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "pod"
			#metric:         "kube_pod_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
	]
}

#filter: { promFilterBuilder & #myVarsBuilder }.filter

#cpuPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "Container CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (container_cpu_usage_seconds{\(#filter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:      "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project:   "MyProject"
	#variables: #myVarsBuilder.variables
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					#cpuPanel,
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```

Once your code is organized this way, you can even split the different definitions in different files. This avoids e.g to have one very big file when you have a dashboard with lots of panels.

### Multiple variable groups

If you want two independent groups of variables on the same dashboard as "C depends on B that depends on A" and "F depends on E that depends on D", use 2 times the variable group builder independently, then concat the lists.

Example:

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	"list"

	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/panel"
	promQLVarBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/variable/promql"
	promFilterBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/filter"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/plugins/timeserieschart/schemas:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/schemas/prometheus-time-series-query:model"
)

#myCloudVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "namespace"
			#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "pod"
			#metric:         "kube_pod_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		}
	]
}

#cloudFilter: { promFilterBuilder & #myCloudVarsBuilder }.filter

#myVMVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "datacenter"
			#metric:         "node_uname_info"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "hostname"
			#metric:         "node_uname_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		}
	]
}

#vmFilter: { promFilterBuilder & #myVMVarsBuilder }.filter

#containerCPUPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "Container CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (container_cpu_usage_seconds{\(#cloudFilter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

#vmCPUPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "VM CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (node_memory_MemTotal_bytes{\(#vmFilter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:      "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project:   "MyProject"
	#variables: list.Concat([#myCloudVarsBuilder.variables, #myVMVarsBuilder.variables])
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					#containerCPUPanel,
					#vmCPUPanel,
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```

Commit message:

[DOC] Mention plugin builders in CUE SDK doc
Signed-off-by: Antoine THEBAUD <antoine.thebaud@yahoo.fr>

docs/dac/cue/README.md, after:

# CUE SDK for Dashboard-as-Code

!!! note
	To get started with Dashboard-as-Code in Perses, have a look at the [DaC user guide](../getting-started.md) first.

This section provides detailed information about the CUE SDK to develop dashboards as code in Perses.
It's focusing on explaining how to use the different builders provided by the SDK, that you should rely on to simplify the coding.
Besides, you can always directly manipulate the base datamodel of the Perses dashboard, but this is less convenient.

See the dedicated pages for each builder:

- [Dashboard](./dashboard.md)
- [Panel Groups](./panelgroups.md)
- Variable-related builders:
    - [Variable Group](./variable/group.md)
    - [List Variable](./variable/list.md)
    - [Text Variable](./variable/text.md)

!!! note
	The builders listed above are all about the Perses core model. To know more about the builder utilities for [plugins](../../concepts/plugins.md), please rely on their respective documentation. 

See also some useful patterns for DaC with the CUE SDK in the below section.

## Useful patterns

This section provides additional tips and tricks to help you develop dashboards as code:

### Declare intermediary objects for reusability

For code organization & to allow reuse/imports of definitions, it's often interesting to declare things like panels, variables etc. upfront and to pass them afterwards to the dashboard object.

Example:

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/panel"
	promQLVarBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/variable/promql"
	promFilterBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/filter"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/plugins/timeserieschart/schemas:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/schemas/prometheus-time-series-query:model"
)

#myVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "namespace"
			#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "pod"
			#metric:         "kube_pod_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
	]
}

#filter: { promFilterBuilder & #myVarsBuilder }.filter

#cpuPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "Container CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (container_cpu_usage_seconds{\(#filter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:      "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project:   "MyProject"
	#variables: #myVarsBuilder.variables
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					#cpuPanel,
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```

Once your code is organized this way, you can even split the different definitions in different files. This avoids e.g to have one very big file when you have a dashboard with lots of panels.

### Multiple variable groups

If you want two independent groups of variables on the same dashboard as "C depends on B that depends on A" and "F depends on E that depends on D", use 2 times the variable group builder independently, then concat the lists.

Example:

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	"list"

	dashboardBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/dashboard"
	panelGroupsBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/panelgroups"
	varGroupBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/variable/group"
	panelBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/panel"
	promQLVarBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/variable/promql"
	promFilterBuilder "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/sdk/cue/filter"
	timeseriesChart "github.com/perses/plugins/timeserieschart/schemas:model"
	promQuery "github.com/perses/plugins/prometheus/schemas/prometheus-time-series-query:model"
)

#myCloudVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "namespace"
			#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "pod"
			#metric:         "kube_pod_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		}
	]
}

#cloudFilter: { promFilterBuilder & #myCloudVarsBuilder }.filter

#myVMVarsBuilder: varGroupBuilder & {
	#input: [
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "datacenter"
			#metric:         "node_uname_info"
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		},
		promQLVarBuilder & {
			#name:           "hostname"
			#metric:         "node_uname_info"
			#allowAllValue:  true
			#allowMultiple:  true
			#datasourceName: "promDemo"
		}
	]
}

#vmFilter: { promFilterBuilder & #myVMVarsBuilder }.filter

#containerCPUPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "Container CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (container_cpu_usage_seconds{\(#cloudFilter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

#vmCPUPanel: panelBuilder & {
	spec: {
		display: name: "VM CPU"
		plugin: timeseriesChart
		queries: [
			{
				kind: "TimeSeriesQuery"
				spec: plugin: promQuery & {
					spec: query: "sum (node_memory_MemTotal_bytes{\(#vmFilter)})"
				}
			},
		]
	}
}

dashboardBuilder & {
	#name:      "ContainersMonitoring"
	#project:   "MyProject"
	#variables: list.Concat([#myCloudVarsBuilder.variables, #myVMVarsBuilder.variables])
	#panelGroups: panelGroupsBuilder & {
		#input: [
			{
				#title: "Resource usage"
				#cols:  3
				#panels: [
					#containerCPUPanel,
					#vmCPUPanel,
				]
			},
		]
	}
}
```
