docs/dac/cue/prometheus/variable/labelnames.md, before:

# Label Names Variable builder

The Label Names Variable builder helps creating prometheus label names variables in the format expected by Perses.

## Usage

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	labelNamesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelnames"
)

labelNamesVarBuilder & {} // input parameters expected
```

## Parameters

| Parameter         | Type                                                         | Mandatory/Optional | Default | Description                                                                      |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `#name`           | string                                                       | Mandatory          |         | The name of this variable.                                                       |
| `#display`        | [Display](../../../../api/variable.md#display-specification) | Optional           |         | Display object to tune the display name, description and visibility (show/hide). |
| `#allowAllValue`  | boolean                                                      | Optional           | false   | Whether to append the "All" value to the list.                                   |
| `#allowMultiple`  | boolean                                                      | Optional           | false   | Whether to allow multi-selection of values.                                      |
| `#metric`         | string                                                       | Mandatory          |         | The name of the source metric to be used.                                        |
| `#datasourceName` | string                                                       | Mandatory          |         | The name of the datasource to query.                                             |

## Output

| Field      | Type                                                           | Description                                               |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `variable` | [Variable](../../../../api/variable.md#variable-specification) | The final variable object, to be passed to the dashboard. |

## Example

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	labelNamesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelnames"
)

{labelNamesVarBuilder & {
	#name:           "namespaceLabels"
	#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
	#datasourceName: "promDemo"
}}.variable
```

Commit message:

[ENHANCEMENT] DaC CUE SDK: Allow providing a custom query to the prom variables builders (#1815)
Signed-off-by: Antoine THEBAUD <antoine.thebaud@yahoo.fr>

docs/dac/cue/prometheus/variable/labelnames.md, after:

# Label Names Variable builder

The Label Names Variable builder helps creating prometheus label names variables in the format expected by Perses.

## Usage

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	labelNamesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelnames"
)

labelNamesVarBuilder & {} // input parameters expected
```

## Parameters

| Parameter         | Type                                                         | Mandatory/Optional | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `#name`           | string                                                       | Mandatory          |         | The name of this variable.                                                                                                                                        |
| `#display`        | [Display](../../../../api/variable.md#display-specification) | Optional           |         | Display object to tune the display name, description and visibility (show/hide).                                                                                  |
| `#allowAllValue`  | boolean                                                      | Optional           | false   | Whether to append the "All" value to the list.                                                                                                                    |
| `#allowMultiple`  | boolean                                                      | Optional           | false   | Whether to allow multi-selection of values.                                                                                                                       |
| `#datasourceName` | string                                                       | Mandatory          |         | The name of the datasource to query.                                                                                                                              |
| `#metric`         | string                                                       | Optional           |         | The name of the source metric to be used. /!\ Mandatory if you want to rely on the standard query pattern, thus didn't provide a value to the `#query` parameter. |
| `#query`          | string                                                       | Optional           |         | Custom query to be used for this variable. /!\ Mandatory if you didn't provide a value to the `#metric` parameter.                                                |

## Output

| Field      | Type                                                           | Description                                               |
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|
| `variable` | [Variable](../../../../api/variable.md#variable-specification) | The final variable object, to be passed to the dashboard. |

## Example

```cue
package myDaC

import (
	labelNamesVarBuilder "github.com/perses/perses/cue/dac-utils/prometheus/variable/labelnames"
)

{labelNamesVarBuilder & {
	#name:           "namespaceLabels"
	#metric:         "kube_namespace_labels"
	#datasourceName: "promDemo"
}}.variable
```
