docs/materials.md, before:

Materials
=========

This is a list of presentations, papers, poadcasts, and other materials related to the project.

## Presentations

- [Limitless Possibilities, Consistent Design: Crafting Dashboards with Perses DAC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7h70Olo5Uzk),
  with **Nicolas Takashi** and **Antoine Thebaud**, *Perses Maintainers*, KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2025.
- [How to manage thousands of dashboards easily](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2itamJhMXw&t=1s),
  with **Antoine Thebaud**, *Perses Maintainer*, Open Source Observability Day 2024.
- [Meet the New Kid in the Sandbox – Integrating Visualization With Prometheus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BGWqCxf6vCE),
  with **Eric Schabell**, *CNCF Ambassador*, PromCon 2024.
- [Perses Update](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MxEc0ciOb-w&t=4s)
  with **Augustin Husson**, *Perses Maintainer*, PromCon 2024.
- [Perses: The CNCF candidate for observability visualisation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7G_0TCrcVyg&t=10s),
  with **Antoine Thebaud** and **Augustin Husson**, *Perses Maintainers*, PromCon 2023.

## Podcasts

- [Perses: Visualize Observability Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-sPCGiEdQ-Q),
  with **Bart Farrel** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Eric Schabell** (*CNCF Ambassador*), 23 Sept 2024.
- [Perses: GitOps-friendly standard dashboard visualization tool for Prometheus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fOH4f-Wzh7Q&t=120s),
  with **Saim Safdar** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Augustin Husson** (*Perses Maintainer*), 20 Sept 2024.
- [Enlightning - Meet the New Kid in the Sandbox: Perses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eG-E9DboFcM),
  with **Whitney Lee** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Eric Schabell** (*CNCF Ambassador*), 13 Sept 2024.
- [PromCon Recap: Unveiling Perses and Prometheus Ecosystem Updates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MzQZagfgIKk),
  with **Dotan Horovits** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Augustin Husson** (*Perses Maintainer*), 4 Oct 2023.

## Papers

- [Unveiling Perses, the GitOps-Friendly Metrics Visualization Tool](https://medium.com/@horovits/unveiling-perses-the-gitops-friendly-metrics-visualization-tool-f05b5324d7da),
  by **Dotan Horovits**, *CNCF Ambassador*, Sept 3 2024.

Commit message:

[doc] update materials with the Rawkode live
Signed-off-by: Augustin Husson <husson.augustin@gmail.com>

docs/materials.md, after:

Materials
=========

This is a list of presentations, papers, poadcasts, and other materials related to the project.

## Presentations

- [Hands-on Introduction to Perses | Rawkode Live](https://www.youtube.com/live/BJ4AgfGtj-8?si=meIKjZMGpoFMwxAt&t=138)
  with **David Flanagan** (*Founder of the Rawkode Academy*) and **Nicolas Takashi** (*Perses Maintainer*), 21 July 2025.
- [Limitless Possibilities, Consistent Design: Crafting Dashboards with Perses DAC](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7h70Olo5Uzk),
  with **Nicolas Takashi** and **Antoine Thebaud**, *Perses Maintainers*, KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe 2025.
- [How to manage thousands of dashboards easily](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2itamJhMXw&t=1s),
  with **Antoine Thebaud**, *Perses Maintainer*, Open Source Observability Day 2024.
- [Meet the New Kid in the Sandbox – Integrating Visualization With Prometheus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BGWqCxf6vCE),
  with **Eric Schabell**, *CNCF Ambassador*, PromCon 2024.
- [Perses Update](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MxEc0ciOb-w&t=4s)
  with **Augustin Husson**, *Perses Maintainer*, PromCon 2024.
- [Perses: The CNCF candidate for observability visualisation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7G_0TCrcVyg&t=10s),
  with **Antoine Thebaud** and **Augustin Husson**, *Perses Maintainers*, PromCon 2023.

## Podcasts

- [Perses: Visualize Observability Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-sPCGiEdQ-Q),
  with **Bart Farrel** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Eric Schabell** (*CNCF Ambassador*), 23 Sept 2024.
- [Perses: GitOps-friendly standard dashboard visualization tool for Prometheus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fOH4f-Wzh7Q&t=120s),
  with **Saim Safdar** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Augustin Husson** (*Perses Maintainer*), 20 Sept 2024.
- [Enlightning - Meet the New Kid in the Sandbox: Perses](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eG-E9DboFcM),
  with **Whitney Lee** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Eric Schabell** (*CNCF Ambassador*), 13 Sept 2024.
- [PromCon Recap: Unveiling Perses and Prometheus Ecosystem Updates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MzQZagfgIKk&list=PLd57eY2edRXz4djMETYTm-2p8WGTdoX3D&index=25&t=2464s),
  with **Dotan Horovits** (*CNCF Ambassador*) and **Augustin Husson** (*Perses Maintainer*), 4 Oct 2023.

## Papers

- [Unveiling Perses, the GitOps-Friendly Metrics Visualization Tool](https://medium.com/@horovits/unveiling-perses-the-gitops-friendly-metrics-visualization-tool-f05b5324d7da),
  by **Dotan Horovits**, *CNCF Ambassador*, Sept 3 2024.
