docs/migration.md, before:

Migrate from Grafana
====================

This documentation will guide you through the process of migrating from Grafana to Perses. For the moment, Grafana is
the only supported source for migration. If you used another tool, and you want to migrate to Perses, please contact us.

## Context

Migrating from Grafana to Perses means to be able to translate the Grafana dashboards to Perses dashboards (in terms of
data-model).

*Note that we are not supporting any other Grafana resources like alerts, users, etc. We are only focusing on the
dashboards.*

The challenge around this process is actually to be able to translate the Grafana various plugins to the ones supported by
Perses. Since Perses is a very young project compared to Grafana, it is certain we are not supporting every possible
plugin. However, we are working hard to support the most popular ones.

If a plugin is not supported, it will be replaced by the Markdown panel in Perses with a note saying:
`this panel is not supported`.

## How it works

As you might now, the Perses dashboard specification is written combining Golang and Cuelang.
We rely on Cuelang when we need to describe a plugin (in the data-model). It allows us to have a dynamic and an
extensible specification.

The migration process is done in two parts:

1. Step one: Import the Grafana Dashboard into a Golang structure and then migrate it to the Perses Golang structure.
2. Step two: for each variables, panels and queries in the Grafana dashboard, we are executing a Cuelang script coming
   from the plugin itself, if, of course, the plugin is supported. This script will generate the piece of the Perses
   data-model for the corresponding plugin.

If you need more information about how to write a migration script in Golang for a plugin, please refer to
the [associated documentation](./plugins/cue.md#migration-from-grafana).

## Prerequisites

As we are always supporting the last version of Grafana, we advise to have your Grafana dashboard up to date if the
latest version of Grafana.

When we started to develop Perses, the latest version of Grafana was 9.0.0. And since we always have a backward
compatible mind when developing the migration script. So there is a high chance you can migrate your dashboard from an
older version of Grafana. But we can't guarantee it.

## How to migrate

1. First, you need a running instance of Perses. If you don't have one, please refer to
   the [installation documentation](./installation/in-a-container.md).
2. Then, you can either use the CLI or the UI to migrate your dashboard.

### Using the UI

- On the home page, click on the right of the button `add dashboard` and select `import dashboard`.
- Then, you can either paste the JSON of your Grafana dashboard or upload the JSON file.
- Click on the `import` button.
- If the migration is successful, then you will have in return the Perses dashboard as a JSON.
- You can save the JSON or continue on the same page to save this migrated dashboard into the project you would like.
  You need to select the project and click on the `import` button.

### Using the CLI

- Install the CLI by following the [installation documentation](./cli.md).
- Login the CLI to the Perses instance

```bash
percli login http://localhost:8080
```

- Then, you can use the `migrate` command to migrate your dashboard. We recommend using the `--online` flag to be sure
  that the migration is done with the latest version of the plugins.

```bash
percli migrate -f grafana-dashboard.json --online -o json > perses-dashboard.json
```

- As a tip, you may want to open the file and remove any reference to the previous datasource used in Grafana. This
  will allow the dashboard to use the default datasource. Do that only if you want to use the default datasource.

For example:

```json
{
  "datasource": {
    "kind": "PrometheusDatasource",
    "name": "$datasource"
  }
}
```

You can transform it like this:

```json
{
  "datasource": {
    "kind": "PrometheusDatasource"
  }
}
```

- You should check the unsupported migrations. For example, in case of a variable, you will get a static variable like this:

```json
{
  ...
  "plugin": {
    "kind": "StaticListVariable",
    "spec": {
      "values": [
        "grafana",
        "migration",
        "not",
        "supported"
      ]
    }
  },
  ...
}
```

- Then, if you are happy with the result, you can import the JSON into Perses using the UI or the CLI. With the CLI, you
  can use the command `apply`:

```bash
percli apply -f perses-dashboard.json --project my-project
```

Commit message:

[ENHANCEMENT] CLI/Migrate: support CR as a migration format (#2682)
Signed-off-by: Augustin Husson <husson.augustin@gmail.com>

docs/migration.md, after:

Migrate from Grafana
====================

This documentation will guide you through the process of migrating from Grafana to Perses. For the moment, Grafana is
the only supported source for migration. If you used another tool, and you want to migrate to Perses, please contact us.

## Context

Migrating from Grafana to Perses means to be able to translate the Grafana dashboards to Perses dashboards (in terms of
data-model).

*Note that we are not supporting any other Grafana resources like alerts, users, etc. We are only focusing on the
dashboards.*

The challenge around this process is actually to be able to translate the Grafana various plugins to the ones supported by
Perses. Since Perses is a very young project compared to Grafana, it is certain we are not supporting every possible
plugin. However, we are working hard to support the most popular ones.

If a plugin is not supported, it will be replaced by the Markdown panel in Perses with a note saying:
`this panel is not supported`.

## How it works

As you might now, the Perses dashboard specification is written combining Golang and Cuelang.
We rely on Cuelang when we need to describe a plugin (in the data-model). It allows us to have a dynamic and an
extensible specification.

The migration process is done in two parts:

1. Step one: Import the Grafana Dashboard into a Golang structure and then migrate it to the Perses Golang structure.
2. Step two: for each variable, panels and queries in the Grafana dashboard, we are executing a Cuelang script coming
   from the plugin itself, if, of course, the plugin is supported. This script will generate the piece of the Perses
   data-model for the corresponding plugin.

If you need more information about how to write a migration script in Golang for a plugin, please refer to
the [associated documentation](./plugins/cue.md#migration-from-grafana).

## Prerequisites

As we are always supporting the last version of Grafana, we advise to have your Grafana dashboard up to date if the
latest version of Grafana.

When we started to develop Perses, the latest version of Grafana was 9.0.0. And since we always have a backward
compatible mind when developing the migration script. So there is a high chance you can migrate your dashboard from an
older version of Grafana. But we can't guarantee it.

## How to migrate

1. First, you need a running instance of Perses. If you don't have one, please refer to
   the [installation documentation](./installation/in-a-container.md).
2. Then, you can either use the CLI or the UI to migrate your dashboard.

### Using the UI

- On the home page, click on the right of the button `add dashboard` and select `import dashboard`.
- Then, you can either paste the JSON of your Grafana dashboard or upload the JSON file.
- Click on the `import` button.
- If the migration is successful, then you will have in return the Perses dashboard as a JSON.
- You can save the JSON or continue on the same page to save this migrated dashboard into the project you would like.
  You need to select the project and click on the `import` button.

### Using the CLI

- Install the CLI by following the [installation documentation](./cli.md).
- Login the CLI to the Perses instance

```bash
percli login http://localhost:8080
```

- Then, you can use the `migrate` command to migrate your dashboard. We recommend using the `--online` flag to be sure
  that the migration is done with the latest version of the plugins.

```bash
percli migrate -f grafana-dashboard.json --online -o json > perses-dashboard.json
```

Note: In case you would like to have the result as a K8s CustomResource, you can use the `--format` flag with the value `cr`.

- As a tip, you may want to open the file and remove any reference to the previous datasource used in Grafana. This
  will allow the dashboard to use the default datasource. Do that only if you want to use the default datasource.

For example:

```json
{
  "datasource": {
    "kind": "PrometheusDatasource",
    "name": "$datasource"
  }
}
```

You can transform it like this:

```json
{
  "datasource": {
    "kind": "PrometheusDatasource"
  }
}
```

- You should check the unsupported migrations. For example, in case of a variable, you will get a static variable like this:

```json
{
  ...
  "plugin": {
    "kind": "StaticListVariable",
    "spec": {
      "values": [
        "grafana",
        "migration",
        "not",
        "supported"
      ]
    }
  },
  ...
}
```

- Then, if you are happy with the result, you can import the JSON into Perses using the UI or the CLI. With the CLI, you
  can use the command `apply`:

```bash
percli apply -f perses-dashboard.json --project my-project
```
