ui/README.md, before:

# Perses UI

This serves as the monorepo root for the packages that make up the Perses UI.
Currently, those packages consist of:

- [`app`](./app): The main Perses UI React application.
- [`core`](./core): Core functionality that's exposed to plugins and also
  consumed by the app
- [`panels-plugin`](./panels-plugin): a plugin module with `Panel` plugins for
  the core visualizations supported by Perses.
- [`prometheus-plugin`](./prometheus-plugin): a plugin module with multiple
  plugin types (e.g. `Variable`, `ChartQuery`, etc.) for supporting Prometheus
  in Perses

The root `package.json` in this folder has
[NPM workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/workspaces) enabled,
so running `npm install` will install dependencies for all packages and add
symlinks to the local versions for packages that depend on other packages in
the workspace. The root `package.json` also contains `devDependencies` that
are commonly used across multiple packages in the workspace.

## Development Environment

You'll need to have the following installed locally before you can start
developing:

- Node: we suggest using [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for installing
  and managing versions
- NPM v7 or higher: a version of `npm` that supports workspaces (use
  `npm --version` to check your version locally)

## Running Scripts

You can use the `-w ${WORKSPACE_NAME}` flag of `npm run` to run scripts inside
workspace packages from this root folder. For example, to start the main app,
you would run:

```sh
npm run start -w app
```

Keep in mind that since `npm install` symlinks to other local packages in the
workspace, you may need to build some packages first locally before they will
be available to the local packages that depend on them (e.g. you need to build
`core` before building/running `app` locally).

You can also run a script across all packages in the workspace using NPM's
`--workspaces` flag.

Commit message:

UI File Reorganization, Guidelines Explaining Layout (#107)
* Reorganize app

Signed-off-by: Luke Tillman <LukeTillman@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add first draft of UI guidelines

Signed-off-by: Luke Tillman <LukeTillman@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update ui/ui-guidelines.md

Co-authored-by: Julius Volz <julius.volz@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Luke Tillman <LukeTillman@users.noreply.github.com>

* PR review updates

Signed-off-by: Luke Tillman <LukeTillman@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Julius Volz <julius.volz@gmail.com>

ui/README.md, after:

# Perses UI

This serves as the monorepo root for the packages that make up the Perses UI.
Currently, those packages consist of:

- [`app`](./app): The main Perses UI React application.
- [`core`](./core): Core functionality that's exposed to plugins and also
  consumed by the app
- [`panels-plugin`](./panels-plugin): a plugin module with `Panel` plugins for
  the core visualizations supported by Perses.
- [`prometheus-plugin`](./prometheus-plugin): a plugin module with multiple
  plugin types (e.g. `Variable`, `ChartQuery`, etc.) for supporting Prometheus
  in Perses

The root `package.json` in this folder has
[NPM workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/workspaces) enabled,
so running `npm install` will install dependencies for all packages and add
symlinks to the local versions for packages that depend on other packages in
the workspace. The root `package.json` also contains `devDependencies` that
are commonly used across multiple packages in the workspace.

## Development Environment

First, check out the [UI Guidelines](./ui-guidelines.md) for some information
on how the codebase is organized and our approach to development in the UI.
You'll need to have the following installed locally before you can start
developing:

- Node: we suggest using [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) for installing
  and managing versions
- NPM v7 or higher: a version of `npm` that supports workspaces (use
  `npm --version` to check your version locally)

## Running Scripts

You can use the `-w ${WORKSPACE_NAME}` flag of `npm run` to run scripts inside
workspace packages from this root folder. For example, to start the main app,
you would run:

```sh
npm run start -w app
```

Keep in mind that since `npm install` symlinks to other local packages in the
workspace, you may need to build some packages first locally before they will
be available to the local packages that depend on them (e.g. you need to build
`core` before building/running `app` locally).

You can also run a script across all packages in the workspace using NPM's
`--workspaces` flag.
